---
layout: post
permalink: "january-2022"
published: true
categories: "personal" 
---

_Moscow, Russia_

The first month of the year went by in an instant. Definitely a change to the better after a long and gloomy December. 

### Events
Finally got my Residence card in Sweden. Feel weird to open with this, but this quest took so much time and efforts, in spite of its simplicity. After 6+ weeks of waiting time, I learned that not the simplest task of managing my biometrics data was fucked up by a Migration Agency employee, but that a second employee who was contacted after ~3 weeks of inital date of submitting the biometrics data lied that he fixed the original error. Luckily, I was able to find an appointment on the very next day after learning about this whole debackle and after traveling deep into Sweden and back, my card has finally arrived. The finish line started to be visible.

Arrival of the card made Dobby free again, and I came to Moscow on the literally the next day. In a few days after that there was the anniversary of our relationships with Adele, and I was desperate to make in.
_____
At this point I can confindently say that I've developed another board hobby and, perhaps, addiction - snowboarding. So this will likely be a recurring topic on these lookback posts, competing with surfing.

In the beginning of the month we went to Romme with Adelya (she stayed with me in Stockholm for the first third of Jan). Had a great day with sweet conditions. 

Bought my first snowboard on Blocket a week later. The board was used, but in good shape. LibTech T.Rice pro from '17 or '18. Nice deck, which I took out on another trip to Romme by myself.

Not sure how many hours of snowboarding content I watched since, but it was a lot. To put a cherry on top of that pie, I bought another deck last week in Moscow, this time brand new from CAPiTA. Guess I'll have to make time to ride 'em both! Luckily, the first ever trip to mountains is coming up in early February, and I can't overstate how hyped I am now.
_____
Met a couple of friends in Stockholm, went out for the first time in a while. Caught myself thinking, that I definitely should be better maintaining connection with people.

### Work
Formally started a big new project at work. Something that we haven't done in a while, involving quite a bit of an exploration and a lot of unknowns. Interesting, but at the same time a little burdensome. I don't really know why, but my best guess so far is simply due to a little bit of more "formalcy" that I personally like. However, this exact reason is likely why I'm going to learn a lot. I've always neglected formal leadership a bit, favoring informal, "people choice" over it. Now it's time to properly learn it.

One particular reason why I've started to think about this formal leadership part as of something necessary is [`The Tyranny of Structurelessness`](https://www.jofreeman.com/joreen/tyranny.htm) article that Avery Pennarun referred to in couple of his posts. If you haven't read it, I strongly recommend to do so.

### Entertainment
In January we picked up The Wire again, after taking more than half a year pause. Rewatching it is a great pleasure, and I'm enjoying literally every scene and line.  
_____
Have started watching Cobra Kai on Netflix. I've neglected it for a long time (apparently the 5th season is out!), mostly due to the surprisingly unattractive teaser. I was so wrong!  
_____
Besides, haven't watched or read much. On the reading part, I mostly read thru or skimmed articles, and couldn't find time and calm place to read a book.

### Other

Towards the end of the year or early in January it's quite customary to share results of the year or yearly goals. For the second year in a row I didn't feel like spending a lot of time outlining goals or analysing the past year. Don't know why, but just didn't feel right to do it. But of course, I had some notion of yearly "wants". Things that I literally spent 5 minutes to come up with. Here is the list:
* Complete 75+ gym workouts
* Read 20+ books (of avg size)
* Complete 4 online courses
* Complete 30+ surfskate training sessions
* Write 20+ blog posts
* Get a driver's licence
  
### Links
* https://blog.apnic.net/2020/08/03/ipv4-ipv6-and-a-sudden-change-in-attitude/

