---
layout: post
permalink: "may-2022"
published: true
categories: "personal" 
---
_June 1st, 2022. Rome, Italy_

May came to an end and I met it with Adelya in Rome. Our purpose here neatly fits between business and leisure - Italy is one of a few places in Europe which hosts a US consulate accepting non-residents' applications. Guess I wouldn't expect that this would be the reason I'd visit Italy (always was a bit skeptical of an idea to come here without having a driver's license and I'm not really a fan of sightseeing). But, after spending a day here I can tell that it is much more enjoyable that I expected. Glad I have two more days here!

The highlights of May are all about people. Firstly, I haven't seen Adelya for more than a month after she went back to Moscow in April and was really happy to see her again. EU visas are ruthless, but I hope that the end of this bullshit visa problems is nigh. Secondly, I've finally went to Amsterdam to see Artem and meet Asya. It's truly been too long as well.
The cherry on top of this was coupling both reunions together - we all met up in Amsterdam around mid-May.

Amsterdam had deceptively nice weather this time. Unbelievably nice, if you ask me. So good it's almost impossible to not fell in love with the city. On the other hand, I definitely have a lot of reasons to like this city even without the weather - I think it combines too many nuances that I'd love my life to have - mainly community and vibrant professional scene. Surely, liberal spirit of the city starkly contrasts with a little bit hypocritical Stockholm, but I'm old enough to not consider this to be important enough reason to consider changing locations.

Speaking of community, Artem organised a super sweet boat trip for us, his and Asya's friends. We spent a good chunk of the day together, sailing around canals at first and then having some food around the neighbourhood we were staying at. Meeting new people felt a little like something from the "past" life, pre-covid and permanent WFH mode. And it was great! Of course I met new people in last 2 years, but rarely from different background and wastly different life story. This Amsterdam trip was reach of such interactions and I'm grateful for it.

As always, we've spend a lot of quality time together with Artem just walking and having deep talks. I usually look forward to our chats and this time definitely wasn't an exception. Especially now, with everything happeing this year. 

Besides obvious, a topic that was quite on top of my mind was work. I've come to realise a few things recently and while I won't write them down just yet, I think that I finally realized a need for certain change in my work life. I'm not absolutely sure yet about the exact details of how this change could or should be implemented, but luckily I have options. There is a decent chance I'll be ready (or able?) to describe them in a month.

Recently I've been thinking about Ray Dalio's base principles times and times again. Meaningful work and meaningful relationships as a base for a healthy fulfilling life always felt reasonable to me. I'm trying to consciously inspect areas of my life, primarily work, to enrich it with meaning. And at times it's truly difficult. Fair to say, I think there are a lot of reasons for that and being tired is likely the primary.

At the end of May we met up with Kiryl and also had a long, deep chat about recent life events. Similar to the talks we had with Artem, it helped me distill a few conclusions I hope I'll be able to share soon-ish.  

___________

## Entertainment
I was lucky enough to visit the show of my most favourite band and performers of all time: Cunninlynguists and Sadistik were in Stockholm as part of their Europe tour! I went alone (none of my friends who were in Stockholm at the time are hip-hop fans) and had amazing time. Guys do know how to rap live (skill that allegedly a few rappers possess) and the little size of the venue created a very cozy atmosphere. Can't however, leave Stockholm without a little poke - people are too reserved and I do think that Kno, Natti, Deacon and Sadistik deserved way more action during the show than they got. The usual Stockholm problem though, nothing new.

Another May entertainment highligh is the indy game Vampire Survivors. Absolutely not demanding, this game allows one to just play and relax, similarly to the way old-school tower defence games did. Can recomment, it's only a few bucks on Steam.

I'd really love to have a long piece about Elden Ring here, but unfortunately I can't - my powerful enough laptop started giving me stable 30fps and I regretfully dropped playing it :(. I do hope to pick it up eventually, maybe when I get ps5 (2023?, lol)  

__________

## Activities
I've set myself a goal of doing at least 75 gym workouts this year. It isn't much really, but recently I found it really challenging to properly go to gym. I struggle to fit it into my typical day and the intermittent schedule with travels and everything just breaks this habit apart. I do think I'll be able to pull it through if I want to, but at this point I'm pretty sure that this gym endeavor won't be the same as I planned it. There is no gym discipline that allows it to really shine and have long lasting effects.

However, think I've found an alternative. A few weeks ago I randomly stumbled upon a video with title saying something along the lines of "doing 200 push ups a day for 30 days" and it got me thinking - doing 100-200 push ups every day doesn't take a long time, but it is good for a few reasons: a) well, it's a good base exercise b) it facilitates a routine. As a result, I've been doing it for ~2 weeks now with taking only a couple of days out to give muscles some time to rest and ramp up properly - at the end of the day I'm in a way worse shape than I was before.
Another unexpected side effect of this routine is that I've developed an interest to use my home basement gym. It isn't much, but it has a bench, a barbell, a bar and good set of weights. I've been trying to go there daily as well, spending short, but very focused and intense time. I don't care about absolute values of weights, I'm alone there, there are no mirror walls and it feels great. An honest work. I feel really good about it and determined to continue.

Lastly, I've finally found strength to go to my local bowl and skate there. So far I've been there twice, taking both surfskate and my regular skate. Taking baby steps feels annoying, but I'm trying to implement an advice I've heard from the Angry Snowboarder channel - "try to scare yourself at least once a day" and it feels like it might be working - discounting on the fact that I have a very low base, I do make some progress that makes me quite happy.  
___________

## Plans
June is going to be busy - I'm going to US to work for 3 weeks and then I'm taking a week off to spend it with my brother, Sergey. Haven't seen him in suuuch a long time! Can't put in words how much I'm looking forward.

