---
layout: post
permalink: "december-2021"
published: true
categories: "personal"
# date: 2022-01-05 12:00 
---

_Stockholm, Sweden_

Belated lookback of December 2021. I guess I could just write "not much has
happened", which would be an accurate depiction of the majority of the month;
but it won't be completely fair.

Overall, I think I felt very mentally tired most of the month. I only realized
it afterwards, perhaps during the long Christmas holiday season. Luckily, most
of December is traditionally quite chill and my mental health didn't take a stab.

After Adelya went home in the beginning of December, I've spent most of the time
by myself. My only "social" highlight was an opening of a snowboarding season
in Romme, Sweden - a little hill approximately 3 hours north-west of Stockholm.
The conditions were great, our little party of four was super fun and I greatly
enjoyed the day. The only bummer was postponed delivery of my newly ordered snowboarding
suit. On an upside - an opportunity to reinforce the lesson in pre-Christmas delivery times.
They suck, write it down.

____

The very essense of my resource went into work. December is usually the month
when practically almost nothing gets done; and if we look at the commit punchcard,
this one wasn't an exception. On the other hand, a few things stood out and made me
realize that something has changed over the years. 

For most of the month I was busy writing design docs and proposals for 2022. 
Managed to knock out one and bring another to the level of an objective of our small-ish group (~45ppl).
I could definitely make both of those be an objective, but felt some doubts, as
this kind of more formalized leadership and delegation is somewhat new to me and 
guts suggested to tone it down a bit. Just to learn how to swim in those waters.
Additionally, I still feel a bit ... odd at times whenever work allows or even worse,
requires some inflation of visibility and formalism. 

In 2021 I definitely began to appreciate and understand the power of scaling out
by delegation. What began as a painful effort and control-related stress evolved
into understanding that I need to at least write down ideas, plans and vision in
such a form that would be understandable and workable by others. 

It is a work in progress, but weirdly it is coupled with some relevant excitement -
would it work out?  

____

Watched Korean tv show, `The Silent Sea`. After `Squid Game` (which was seriously over-hyped IMO)
this one felt original. Anti-capitalistic ideas are present as well. 
What I found particularly interesting is how the story was introduced. Instead of 
gradual world-building and introduction of characters, viewers are thrown into the
story that inexorably moves forward. I can't explain it well, but I think that 
any western show with similar story-telling technique would be burnt alive.

____

Spent a while just reading [Avery Pennarun's blog](https://apenwarr.ca/). Wasn't
a December's find, but I definitely didn't pay enough attention to it before. And couldn't
get enough of it lately. I particularly recommend his latest posts about 
crypto: [first](https://apenwarr.ca/log/20211117) and [second](https://apenwarr.ca/log/20211201).

Besides, [this post](https://apenwarr.ca/log/20211024) is probably the best thing
I've ever read about Product Management. Here are a few quotes:
> We need to make a distinction between needs and wants.

> Needs are AND. Wants are OR. A product must satisfy all your needs. It can get away with satisfying only one want, if you want it badly enough.

____

After Christmas Adele arrived, bringing a couple of friends as well. Having Russian
friends over for New Years wasn't unexpected, but still over-delivered in terms of how
fun and cozy it was. Stockholm, despite it being gloomy and, well, Stockholm in December,
allowed for a couple of nice walks, a skiing trip to Romme on Dec 30 and a pretty fun
New Year celebration.

As the closing thought: at the age of 29 and several relationships past I realized how amazingly great
it is to share a passion for an activity/sport/hobby with your partner.
